thank you how do you read people Ed's
bow again and today it's the Battle of
the accents we have Catherine YouTube
she's from the UK and she's gonna tell
us a little bit about what's going on
over there and then touch on some other
subjects Catherine
start off by telling us a little bit
about yourself yes my name is Catherine
I intersectional anti-capitalist
I make youtube videos about politics
social and political ecology veganism
feminism basically anything that relates
to social and political issues from an
intersectional and capitalist
perspective I also work in the climate
change mitigation field and I'm an
advocate for children with who have
experienced child abuse there yeah that
is a huge list yeah yeah I definitely I
looked over your YouTube channel and
there's a lot of stuff on it that's uh
that's like I like the way you phrase
things in your titles it definitely
makes people want to click without b80
being click baby it's nice
okay so the the one question that
everybody wants me to ask anybody from
over there just tell us about the
election for people outside of the UK
who don't really know how UK elections
work basically there are 650 feeds in
the House of Commons and House of
Commons is where we all the important
political government decisions get made
and in order for a party to have a
majority in the government they need 326
seats and so the Conservative Party
which is the right-wing party in the UK
they got 365 seats which is a huge
majority and the Labour Party got 203
feet surfaces like the members of
parliament they're elected in each
constituency and 203 feets as the worst
results that Labour
since 1935 so it's it was pretty
shocking especially since in 2017 they
got I think 40% of the total number of
votes total number of seats in that in
the House of Commons so it was pretty
bad so yeah people are generally saying
the reasons for why this has happened
relates to one the media bias secondly
the referendum the positioned labor had
on the referendum a lot of people were
saying that labor were too left-wing
which i think is not the case at all but
yeah I think one of the main reasons for
why they failed they'd have a lot to do
with the media bias because in the UK
80% of our media is owned by just five
billionaires people like Rupert Murdoch
and the Barclay brothers who have a
vested interest in making sure people
like labour don't get in power because
it would mess with their profit margins
and their overall politics and even the
BBC which is supposed to be really
impartial in the UK have also been
accused of being more in favor and
reporting more favorably on borås than
on Corbin generally which I would also
agree to there was a mess antique or
being smear campaign going on throughout
the media and generally so much focus on
his anti apparent anti-semitism but
relatively little about Boris being
racist sexist and homophobic so yeah I
think the media was a big issue but I do
think that the Labour government should
definitely take into account the fact
that their referendum position wasn't
very effective at all they basically
they did a poll in January by mygov and
it was asking people who had previously
supported labour why they now weren't
supporting labour anymore and two-thirds
of the answers related to breakfa and
labour had a policy on brexit which was
basically that they wanted another
referendum in six months time and the
Corbyn didn't make his position on the
referendum clear at all he didn't say
whether he was pro or against it
and I think in contrast Boris had a very
clear get breakfast get breakfast done
stance which which fade which a lot of
people were in favor of so basically
labour lost so many leave voters because
they massively overestimated how popular
a second referendum would be but I don't
really know how much better it would
have been if they had had a brexit
stance Pro brexit stance because then I
still think they would have lost a lot
of lis voters he wanted and the you know
the super that get brexit done stance of
Boris was very appealing to a lot of
people so yeah I don't know how much
that would have helped but yeah and a
lot of people are arguing about it well
labour needs to be less left-wing in
future that was what the main problem
but if it were really the case that
people wanted their less left labour I
think a lot more people would have voted
for the Liberal Democrats but they're
kind of the more centrist left in
between conservatives and labour in the
UK but they only got 11 seats overall so
I I don't I think it's pretty clear that
more centrist left isn't what people
want and people didn't vote for labour
because they thought the top 5% of
people are getting having enough like of
their taxes taken they're not they
didn't vote for labour because they
thought it was bad that we should give
the NHS more money or do something about
climate change means I think it was much
more to do with the media and the
referendum position of Corbin so how
does all of this impact Scotland in
northern ireland now that there's kind
of a leave movement there yeah so I
think that so the SNP a lot of seats
they got I think it was 48 seats in the
election and they were really really
popular in Scotland and I think Nicola
Sturgeon the leader of the SNP party
Scottish National Party has cooled or is
about to call for a second referendum or
not a second another referendum in
Scotland to leave England and it's
pretty positive that it's now going to
happen I think the UK is not going to be
the UK anymore
think Scotland is gonna leave England
and maybe even Wales is going to leave
England but I'm not so sure about Wales
what's happening there because the DEP
which is the main like the Welsh party
Democratic Unionist Party didn't get
many feet so I don't think that that
would happen but yeah I think Scotland
is definitely going to leave England for
sure and then the other question that
we're getting especially even here which
is odd to see this much interest in UK
politics is do you think brexit will
result in a hard border between the
north and south and Ireland it's really
hard to say because I don't know because
Boris is taking different stances on
there one minute he's saying that there
will be a border hit like you've been
suggesting there was would be like a
wall between the south and the north but
I do but I actually don't think that
that will happen and I think that the
Northern Ireland and South they'll still
stay it will stay as it is but it's it's
difficult to say because I think there
would be some conflict and in Ireland
but I didn't know enough about Irish
politics to know what's going on at the
moment over there there yeah okay and
just so everybody knows at home I'd like
kind of completely almost surprised her
with all of those questions that's not
really what we're here to talk about so
pick one of your videos and just kind of
delve us into where to where you take
them like body positivity is a scam is
one that I saw and I think that that's a
good kind of segue into the other stuff
we want to talk about yes I guess we
were going to talk about patriarchy and
relating a good body image and body
positivity so I guess when it comes to
you I guess what I was going into in the
body in the video on body positivity it
wasn't about saying it wasn't like a fat
fake video even though the title might
sound like that it was basically talking
about how and today
things like body positivity are used in
feminism that we have this car type of
feminism that is advocating for body
things like body positivity which is
like greater representation of certain
bodies it's supposed to be the solution
to the fact that we have these certain
Beauty ideals that are so pervasive and
leading to women being psychologically
physically emotionally depleted and
basically there's this movement has come
about where there's greater whether
people non-normative bodies are being
shown more in advertising and social
media but the thing is I think for the
most part it's quite a full solution
because the majority of the time the
bodies that are being shown are very
normatively attractive bodies still even
if they are plus-size they tend to have
hourglass figures conventionally
attractive facial features and kind of
curves in order hyper sexualized places
so they're not actually really
challenging body image issues because
the by by saying that these models are
representative of fat bodies they're
just contributing to more shame towards
bodies that are plus-sized because the
representation of them is still not
accurate and even when they are accurate
representations most of the time they're
used to advertise different products
such as like new clothing lines or even
dieting pills and things like that and
that just is contributing to more
capitalism more consumerism which
actually at the root of a lot of
patriarchy and sexism in our society you
know traditionally feminists radical
feminists have recognized that we need
to tackle things like capitalism
capitalism is a heart of patriarchy and
we shouldn't be promoting more
capitalism and a lot of the images of
body-positive models and body positives
advocates in advertising
they're often reproducing the typical
male gaze so they'll often look into the
camera in in typically seductive ways or
position
themselves so as to invite the male gaze
on certain areas of your body and things
like that and it's very much reproducing
patriarchal male gaze or they'll be
wearing lots of makeup or fake tan or
lots of new fashion items and I'm not
saying with anything inherently wrong
with that but it's kind of there's a
contradiction when you're trying to
subvert a certain norm but then you're
simultaneously reproducing it
reproducing the idea of what women
should look like and dress like so I
think it actually ends up reproducing
the exact same things that they're
actually trying to subvert in the end
okay so for those that are not up to
speed on it let's get a good definition
of patriarchy sure so there's different
definitions of patriarchy so the first
one tends to be that system of
governments or society where men hold
the power and women are largely excluded
from it second one relates to where men
are like the head of the family or the
oldest male child is head of the family
and rate and descent is reckoned through
the male line and then there's also a
like a system where that is designed
around patriarchal lines and patriarchal
values and I think that there's a common
misconception that patriarchy is just
about men against women but it's
actually more about masculinity and
femininity and these terms that relate
to characteris traits that are seen as
characteristic of men or women so
masculinity like refers to
aggressiveness and domination and
individualism and competition and
violence and things like that and
femininity is traits associated with
softness and kindness compassion and
caring and we currently live in a system
and society where we overvalue traits
relating to masculinity and undervalue
feminine traits though masculinity of
seem to dominate femininity and that's
the inherent problem
it's not that there's anything inherent
in men that makes them bad or inherent
in women that makes them subordinate
it's about the way that the
characteristics that we value does
patriarchy hurt men yes it's just about
women but actually I mean further
one of the most common problems with
patriarchy is that men are taught to
suppress so many emotions not allowed to
cry not allowed to express when they're
hurting and things like that they're
only allowed to express it through anger
or aggression and this leads to so many
issues mental health issues they have a
much higher rate of suicide than women
they have much higher rate of alcohol
abuse men are much more likely to end up
in prison they're much less likely to be
taken seriously if they have domestic or
sexual experience domestic or sexual
assault they are much more likely to
have to go to war and find why even if
they don't want to
I think fatherhood is often very
difficult for men because there's
certain ideas that they're not supposed
to spend too much time with kids or play
too much with their kids and then
there's also these gendered expectations
that they should go out to work all the
time and take care of the family which
can harm a lot of people who aren't able
to do that or don't want to do that and
also these expectations of what it is to
be a real man if you if you don't if you
don't conform to these ideas of you know
at all muscly hyper masculine guy then
it can be incredibly harmful for you so
yeah there's multiple ways in which
patriarchy harms men just as much not
just as much but definitely harms men as
well and how is capitalism and
patriarchy how are they tied um so some
people say that there isn't a link
between patriarchy and capitalism
because patriarchy preceded capitalism
but whilst it is you that patriarchy
preceded capitalism
basically capitalism profoundly
transformed the nature of women's
subordination and oppression so prior to
the 15th century women had a lot more
rights than after the 15th century when
capitalism was institutionalized but
from the 15th to 18th century capitalism
was basically used as a means to
subordinate and oppress women so they
did this by for example they
decriminalized rape as a means of
defusing workers protests they
institutionalized prostitution as a
means of defusing worker solidarity
things like women were forced into
domestic and reproductive labor against
their will so they could be relegated
little more into the home instead of
working and all of these things
basically meant that the very
institutionalizing of capitalism the
very foundations upon which capitalism
was built was built off of the
oppression of women and I think that we
can still see that too today so anytime
that women do get any rights under our
capitalist system it's mainly as a
result of the fact that we need it for
production and consumption so you know
during World War Two when they needed
more females to work because men were
out at war women were given the right to
work but then as soon as in the 1950s
when they no longer needed women to work
they started to introduce in advertising
this idea of domestic goddess and
femininity correlating with staying at
home and doing domestic chores and this
served the consumer purpose of getting
women to buy household products which
they needed in order to make money but
it also helped to bring women back into
the home back into domestic labour and
reproductive labor and then it went on
to change to beauty ideals that we see
today which also help to continue the
subordination of women today and yeah it
just continues and again the beauty idea
serves the consumer purpose by selling
us
fast-fashion and the beauty industry and
dieting industry and all of these
industries which help keep capitalism
alive and the more women see themselves
as subordinate and
objects to the male gaze the more it
keeps us from revolting or challenging
the system and there is no incentive
inherent in capitalism to do anything
about patriarchy so no matter how much
we try and fight for rights or yeah for
the rights or equality for women it's
never going to be successful and they're
a capitalist system because capitalism
is inherently based off of the
oppression of women in and it has no
incentive to do anything about it yeah
so what does a post patriarchal society
look like I guess it would look like
both men and women have complete
equality but I think it would have to do
with getting rid of all higher
hierarchies in general I don't think
that we can get rid of men dominating
women without also getting rid of men
dumb like humans dominating nature and
dominating animals and I genuinely I
think what would it look like I guess
where everyone would have the ability to
do with their lives whatever they wanted
to there wasn't any kind of gendered
norms that you as a woman have to do
this or you as a man have to do this the
whole idea of I guess we might even get
rid of these ideas of certain sexes oh
it's not sexist but of genders in
general yeah I don't know if that was a
good answer any edges a good answer yeah
it's just it's one of this is a topic
here in the u.s. these terms are just so
loaded I mean yeah like they really are
and it's one of these things that it's
hard to get people to even discuss it
because a lot of them don't have
definitions they don't really grasp the
ideas and it's you know one of those
things about
messager and i'm not really the right
person to deliver that message at times
so for those of you watching on youtube
this is kind of the introduction this is
this is going to be the end of it
because we're going to delve into a lot
of deeper topics and topics that
wouldn't really fit on the YouTube
channel in the podcast so the link to
that will be below if you're listening
to this on the podcast we will be right
back in just a moment